[DOCS-1700] Update docs for automation history (#1563)
wandb/docs: content/en/guides/core/automations/view-automation-history.md

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Project" %}}
1. Navigate to your project from the W&B home page or by using the project selector.
1. Click the **Automations** tab in the project navigation bar (located alongside Overview, Workspace, Runs, etc.). The project's automations display.

    - Find the automation you want to investigate. You can use the search bar to filter by automation name, and you can sort by the last triggered date to find recently executed automations.

    - Click an automation name to open its details page.
1. In the **History** tab, view all executions of the project's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

### From the automation details page

When viewing an individual automation:

1. Navigate to the automation details page by clicking an automation name from the Automations tab.
1. Click the **History** tab to view a chronological list of all executions.
1. Each entry shows:
   - Execution date and time.
   - Triggering event details.

>    - Status indicator (success, failure, or in progress).

Reviewer: **suggestion:** recommend using the formal names for consistency and clarity
```suggestion
   - Status indicator (finished, failed, or pending).
```

>    - Duration of execution.

Reviewer: While this is recorded, I don't believe we actually display this in the UI right now

>    - Duration of execution.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Understanding execution details

Click any automation execution entry to view detailed information. The details shown depend on the execution's status.

### Execution status

| Status | Icon | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| **Finished** | ✅ | A green checkmark indicates that the automation completed successfully. |
| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation terminated unsuccessfully for any reason. |

> | **Pending** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |

Reviewer: I'm not sure the icons are accurate -- the execution status should be displayed using the same pills that are used for run status.

E.g. for "Finished": 

<img width="104" height="39" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/dd735a10-d5a7-4a60-a5a1-6052d1ee4785" />

You might consider removing the `Icon` column and any reference to it entirely, simiilar to how the docs already describe [run states](https://docs.wandb.ai/guides/runs/#run-states)

#### Successful executions
A successful execution shows:
- **Trigger information**:
  - Event type (e.g., "Artifact alias added")
  - Source details (artifact name, version, user who triggered)
  - Exact timestamp with timezone
- **Payload sent**:
  - For Slack: The formatted message content
  - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload. No values are masked.
- **Delivery confirmation**:
  - HTTP status code (e.g., "200 OK")
  - For Slack: Channel and thread information
- **Response data** (webhook automations only):
  - Full response body.

> Request and response headers are omitted.

Reviewer: For clarity and consistency, you may want to group these in the same way they're grouped in the execution details drawer, e.g. `Event Details`, `Action Details`, `Result Details`:

<img width="592" height="320" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/586fa3c5-d23e-46db-991c-a45b3901cc67" />

#### Failed executions
A failed execution shows:

> - **Error summary**: High-level description (e.g., "Connection timeout", "Authentication failed")

Reviewer: I would probably avoid example messages here for now -- unless you've confirmed these -- as they may be misleading/inaccurate.  I suspect these don't match the actual messages that would appear for e.g.
- an actual connection timeout 
- an auth failure

but at the moment, the message isn't directly controlled by the automation itself

- **Detailed error message**:
  ```text
  Error: Failed to connect to webhook endpoint
  URL: https://api.example.com/webhook
  Status: 502 Bad Gateway
  Response: "upstream server temporarily unavailable"
  ```

## Filter and search automation history
If you have a large number of automations or executions:
- Use the search bar to filter or search for automations by name.
- Click a column name to sort by that column. Click a second time to reverse the sort order.

## Troubleshooting

### Automation not appearing in history
If an expected automation execution doesn't appear:

- After an automation runs, it may take a few minutes to appear in the history. Refresh the page, then check the **Last checked** column to verify that the automation ran.

> - Confirm that the automation is turned on. If the automation has a **Disabled** badge, click the automation's name, then turn the automation on using the toggle.

Reviewer: Do we have a disabled badge in the UI?  I was under the impression that we could only enable/disable an automation programmatically (from the API)

Author: You're right.

- Verify that the triggering event occurred or the triggering conditions were met. For example:
   - For an automation triggered by artifact events, such as when an artifact has an alias applied, check the artifact's version history.
   - For an automation triggered by a run metric, confirm that the run logged the expected metric values.
   - For an automation with a filter, verify the details. For example, for a regex filter, verify the regex.

### Missing execution details
Some execution details may be limited if:
- The automation was created before history tracking was turned on.

> - Network issues prevented complete logging.

Reviewer: **suggestion:** I'd remove this.  "Network issues" can refer to a number of distinct issues, but in general, if they cause the automation to fail, that failure should be caught and recorded in the final execution result.

> - The automation was deleted and recreated with the same name.

Reviewer: This shouldn't remove the old automation's history -- are you seeing otherwise?

---
menu:
  default:
    identifier: view-automation-history
    parent: automations
title: View an automation's history
weight: 3
---
{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}
{{< readfile file="/_includes/enterprise-cloud-only.md" >}}
{{% /pageinfo %}}

> This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/">}}). The automation history feature allows you to track when automations were triggered, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

Author: ```suggestion
This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/">}}) and track what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.
```

## Overview

Automation history provides a comprehensive log of all automation executions, including:
- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered
- **Trigger event**: The specific event that caused the automation to run
- **Status**: Whether the automation succeeded, failed, or is still running
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed (Slack notification sent, webhook called, etc.)

> - **Error messages**: Detailed error information if the automation failed

Author: End the sentences with periods.

## Access automation history

You can view automation history from multiple locations:

### From the Automations tab

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}
1. Navigate to your registry and click the **Automations** tab
2. Find the automation you want to investigate
3. Click on the automation name to view its details
4. Select the **History** tab to see all past executions

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Project" %}}
1. Navigate to your project and click the **Automations** tab
2. Find the automation you want to investigate
3. Click on the automation name to view its details

> 4. Select the **History** tab to see all past executions

Author: End sentences with periods. Use automatic numbering (all items start with `1.`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabpane >}}

### From the automation details page

> When viewing an individual automation:
> 1. The **History** tab displays a chronological list of all executions
> 2. Each entry shows:
>    - Execution date and time
>    - Triggering event details
>    - Status indicator (success, failure, or in progress)
>    - Duration of execution
> 

Author: ```suggestion
1. <Show how to get to the Automation Details page>
1. Click the **History** tab to view a chronological list of all executions.
2. Each entry shows:
   - Execution date and time
   - Triggering event details
   - Status indicator (success, failure, or in progress)
   - Duration of execution

```

## Understanding execution details

> Click on any execution entry to view detailed information:

Author: ```suggestion
Click any automation execution entry to view detailed information:
```
Avoid "click on" per the Google Developer Style Guide.

### Successful executions

> For successful executions, you'll see:

Author: ```suggestion
A successful execution shows:
```

- The exact trigger that initiated the automation
- The payload or message that was sent
- Confirmation of successful delivery
- Response details (for webhook automations)

### Failed executions

> For failed executions, the details include:

Author: ```suggestion
A failed execution shows:
```

- The error message explaining why the automation failed
- The stage at which the failure occurred
- Debugging information to help resolve the issue
- Options to retry the automation (if applicable)

> ## Filter and search history

Author: ```suggestion
## Filter and search automation history
```

> The automation history interface provides several ways to find specific executions:

Author: ```suggestion
This section shows various ways to filter and search for automation executions.
```

### Filter by status

> - **All**: View all executions

Author: Also applies to all of the remaining subsections at this level:

- End sentences with periods.
- Use automatic numbering for numbered lists

- **Successful**: Show only successful executions
- **Failed**: Show only failed executions
- **In Progress**: Show currently running automations

### Filter by date range
- Use the date picker to select a specific time period

> - Options include: Last 24 hours, Last 7 days, Last 30 days, or custom range

Author: The first sentence is not a list item.
The second sentence is not itself a list item. Render the options as a list.

### Search functionality
- Search by trigger event details
- Search by error messages

> - Search by artifact names or aliases

Author: Rewrite this as a sentence or two instead of bullet points, giving the opportunity to reduce the redundancy a bit.

> ## Common use cases

Author: I like the detail in the subsections but I don't think this section is needed. Move the interesting details up into the overview as a few sentences.

### Debugging failed automations
1. Filter the history to show only failed executions
2. Click on a failed execution to see the error details
3. Use the error information to:
   - Fix webhook endpoint issues
   - Update authentication credentials
   - Resolve network connectivity problems
   - Correct payload formatting errors

### Verifying automation triggers
1. Check the history to confirm an automation was triggered by a specific event
2. Verify the timing and frequency of executions
3. Ensure automations are not triggering too frequently or missing expected events

### Auditing automation activity
1. Export automation history for compliance or reporting
2. Track which users' actions triggered automations
3. Monitor the overall health and reliability of your automation workflows

## History retention

> - Automation history is retained for 90 days by default

Author: Is it configurable?

- Failed executions may include additional diagnostic information for troubleshooting

> - History data can be exported for long-term storage if needed

Author: How? Did you find details about that in your source materials?

## Troubleshooting

### Automation not appearing in history
If an expected automation execution doesn't appear:
- Verify the trigger event actually occurred
- Check that the automation is enabled
- Ensure the event matches the automation's filter criteria
- Review any conditional logic in the automation configuration

### Missing execution details
Some execution details may be limited if:
- The automation was created before history tracking was enabled
- Network issues prevented complete logging
- The automation was deleted and recreated

## Best practices

1. **Regular monitoring**: Check automation history periodically to ensure workflows are running as expected

> 2. **Set up alerts**: Configure notifications for failed automations to address issues quickly

Author: How?

| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation terminated unsuccessfully for any reason. |
| **Pending** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |

#### Successful executions
A successful execution shows:
- **Trigger information**:
  - Event type (e.g., "Artifact alias added")
  - Source details (artifact name, version, user who triggered)
  - Exact timestamp with timezone
- **Payload sent**:
  - For Slack: The formatted message content
  - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload. No values are masked.
- **Delivery confirmation**:
  - HTTP status code (e.g., "200 OK")
  - For Slack: Channel and thread information
- **Response data** (webhook automations only):
  - Full response body.
Request and response headers are omitted.

#### Failed executions
A failed execution shows:
- **Error summary**: High-level description (e.g., "Connection timeout", "Authentication failed")
- **Detailed error message**:
  ```text
  Error: Failed to connect to webhook endpoint
  URL: https://api.example.com/webhook
  Status: 502 Bad Gateway
  Response: "upstream server temporarily unavailable"
  ```

> #### Skipped or cancelled executions
> Skipped or cancelled executions show details about why it was skipped or who cancelled it.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation terminated unsuccessfully for any reason. |
| **Pending** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |

#### Successful executions
A successful execution shows:
- **Trigger information**:
  - Event type (e.g., "Artifact alias added")
  - Source details (artifact name, version, user who triggered)
  - Exact timestamp with timezone
- **Payload sent**:
  - For Slack: The formatted message content
  - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload. No values are masked.
- **Delivery confirmation**:
  - HTTP status code (e.g., "200 OK")
  - For Slack: Channel and thread information
- **Response data** (webhook automations only):
  - Full response body.
Request and response headers are omitted.

#### Failed executions
A failed execution shows:
- **Error summary**: High-level description (e.g., "Connection timeout", "Authentication failed")
- **Detailed error message**:
  ```text
  Error: Failed to connect to webhook endpoint
  URL: https://api.example.com/webhook
  Status: 502 Bad Gateway
  Response: "upstream server temporarily unavailable"

>   ```
> 
> #### Skipped or cancelled executions
> Skipped or cancelled executions show details about why it was skipped or who cancelled it.
> 
> ## Filter and search automation history
> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

#### Successful executions
A successful execution shows:
- **Trigger information**:
  - Event type (e.g., "Artifact alias added")
  - Source details (artifact name, version, user who triggered)
  - Exact timestamp with timezone
- **Payload sent**:
  - For Slack: The formatted message content
  - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload. No values are masked.
- **Delivery confirmation**:
  - HTTP status code (e.g., "200 OK")
  - For Slack: Channel and thread information
- **Response data** (webhook automations only):
  - Full response body.
Request and response headers are omitted.

#### Failed executions
A failed execution shows:
- **Error summary**: High-level description (e.g., "Connection timeout", "Authentication failed")
- **Detailed error message**:
  ```text
  Error: Failed to connect to webhook endpoint
  URL: https://api.example.com/webhook
  Status: 502 Bad Gateway
  Response: "upstream server temporarily unavailable"
  ```

#### Skipped or cancelled executions
Skipped or cancelled executions show details about why it was skipped or who cancelled it.

## Filter and search automation history

> This section shows various ways to filter and search for automation executions.

Author: ```suggestion
```

| Status | Icon | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| **Success** | ✅ | A green checkmark indicates that the automation completed successfully and the action was performed |
| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation encountered an error and could not complete. |
| **In Progress** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |
| **Cancelled** | ⏹️ Gray square icon | A gray square icon indicates that the automation was manually stopped before completion. |
| **Skipped** | ⏭️ Gray forward arrow icon | A gray forward arrow icon indicates that the automation was triggered but subsequently skipped because its conditions were not met. |

## View automation history

You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B interface:

### From the Automations tab

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Model Registry** in the left sidebar.
1. Select your registry from the list.
1. Click **Automations** tab to view the registry's automations. In each row, the **Last execution** column shows when the automation last executed.

> 1. In the **Automations history** tab, view all executions of the registry's automations in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution. Each execution's metadata displays, including the event, action, and status.

Author: TODO: Verify after Registry UI bug is fixed

---
menu:
  default:
    identifier: view-automation-history
    parent: automations
title: View an automation's history
weight: 3
---
{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}
{{< readfile file="/_includes/enterprise-cloud-only.md" >}}
{{% /pageinfo %}}

This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/">}}) and track what triggered an automation, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

## Overview

> Each execution of an automation generates a comprehensive log entry that includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each executed automation generates a record that includes:
```

- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered.

> - **Trigger event**: The specific event that caused the automation to run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Triggering event**: The specific event triggered the automation.
```

(hypothetically, the automation may not get to the point where it actually "runs" anything.  there should still be a record of the attempt if it was triggered.)

- **Status**: The execution's status. See [Execution status](#execution-status).
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed, such as notifying a Slack channel or running a webhook.

> - **Error messages**: Detailed error information for a failed automation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Result details**: Additional information, if any, about the final outcome of executing the automation, including the error for a failed execution.
```

## View automation history

You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B interface:

### From the Automations tab

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}

> 1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Model Registry** in the left sidebar.

Reviewer: Q: Is this page documenting specifically for legacy Model Registry?  If not:
```suggestion
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Registry** in the left sidebar.
```

### From the automation details page

When viewing an individual automation:

1. Navigate to the automation details page by clicking an automation name from the Automations tab.
1. Click the **History** tab to view a chronological list of all executions.
1. Each entry shows:
   - Execution date and time.
   - Triggering event details.
   - Status indicator (success, failure, or in progress).
   - Duration of execution.

## Understanding execution details

Click any automation execution entry to view detailed information. The details shown depend on the execution's status. See [Execution status](#execution-status) and the following sections.

### Execution status

| Status | Icon | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| **Success** | ✅ | A green checkmark indicates that the automation completed successfully and the action was performed |
| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation encountered an error and could not complete. |
| **In Progress** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |
| **Cancelled** | ⏹️ Gray square icon | A gray square icon indicates that the automation was manually stopped before completion. |

> | **Skipped** | ⏭️ Gray forward arrow icon | A gray forward arrow icon indicates that the automation was triggered but subsequently skipped because its conditions were not met. |

Reviewer: This is not quite accurate.  The execution status borrows from Run status for consistency, and shares the same status names/colors/semantics.  The relevant statuses for Automation History (right now) are:
- Pending -- the automation is still executing (running)
- Finished -- the automation terminated successfully (I'd prefer "success" personally, but this is the naming convention we have)
- Failed -- the automation terminated unsuccessfully, for any reason

> | **Success** | ✅ | A green checkmark indicates that the automation completed successfully and the action was performed |
> | **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation encountered an error and could not complete. |
> | **In Progress** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |
> | **Cancelled** | ⏹️ Gray square icon | A gray square icon indicates that the automation was manually stopped before completion. |
> | **Skipped** | ⏭️ Gray forward arrow icon | A gray forward arrow icon indicates that the automation was triggered but subsequently skipped because its conditions were not met. |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Finished** | ✅ | A green checkmark indicates that the automation completed successfully. |
| **Failed** | ❌ | A red X indicates that the automation terminated unsuccessfully for any reason. |
| **Pending** | 🔄 Spinning icon | A spinning arrow icon indicates that the automation is running. |
```

#### Successful executions
A successful execution shows:
- **Trigger information**:
  - Event type (e.g., "Artifact alias added")
  - Source details (artifact name, version, user who triggered)
  - Exact timestamp with timezone
- **Payload sent**:
  - For Slack: The formatted message content

>   - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload (with sensitive values masked)

Reviewer: AFAIK there's no masking of the JSON payload i.e. request body (which is typically not a great way to send sensitive data)

>   - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload (with sensitive values masked)

Author: ```suggestion
  - For webhooks: The complete JSON payload. No values are masked.
```

- **Delivery confirmation**:
  - HTTP status code (e.g., "200 OK")

>   - Response time in milliseconds

Reviewer: I don't believe we measure this separately

>   - Response time in milliseconds

Author: ```suggestion
```

  - For Slack: Channel and thread information
- **Response data** (webhook automations only):

>   - Response headers

Reviewer: Headers are not included for request _or_ response.  (Especially since in the request, they can often include secrets/auth values)

>   - Response headers

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - Response body (truncated if large)

Reviewer: AFAIK there's no explicit truncation, the content of the response body (as text) is displayed as-is

>   - Response body (truncated if large)

Author: ```suggestion
  - Full response body.
```

>   - Any returned job IDs or reference numbers

Reviewer: This is only for Launch jobs, and I'm not sure if we're officially undeprecating Launch in automations yet.  May consider omitting this

>   - Any returned job IDs or reference numbers

Author: ```suggestion
Request and response headers are omitted.
```

#### Failed executions
A failed execution shows:
- **Error summary**: High-level description (e.g., "Connection timeout", "Authentication failed")
- **Detailed error message**:
  ```text
  Error: Failed to connect to webhook endpoint
  URL: https://api.example.com/webhook
  Status: 502 Bad Gateway
  Response: "upstream server temporarily unavailable"
  ```
- **Failure stage**: Where in the process it failed:
  - "Pre-validation" - Failed before sending
  - "Connection" - Network or DNS issues
  - "Authentication" - Invalid credentials or tokens

>   - "Processing" - Remote server rejected the request

Reviewer: This is incorrect.  It would be useful to report on the step in which it failed, but this is also not consistent with how we'd need to define the steps in automations.  I'd probably omit this section

- **Debugging information**:

>   - Request headers sent

Reviewer: As above, this is incorrect -- these are not included at this time

> - **Failure stage**: Where in the process it failed:
>   - "Pre-validation" - Failed before sending
>   - "Connection" - Network or DNS issues
>   - "Authentication" - Invalid credentials or tokens
>   - "Processing" - Remote server rejected the request
> - **Debugging information**:
>   - Request headers sent

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   - Curl command equivalent for testing

Reviewer: Also incorrect, I would remove this

>   - Suggested fixes based on error type

Reviewer: This is not included, especially since there's no reasonable programmatic way of determining this for webhooks -- different services can fail for different reasons (and provide varying levels of error information in the response)

>   - Suggested fixes based on error type

Author: ```suggestion
```

- **Retry options**:
  - "Retry Now" button (if automation is still valid)

>   - "Edit and Retry" to modify payload before retrying

Reviewer: These are not included -- while automations history is built in a way that accommodates retry logic in the future, it is not currently implemented and was expressly out of scope for MVP

>   - "Edit and Retry" to modify payload before retrying

Author: ```suggestion
```

> #### Skipped or cancelled executions

Reviewer: I feel like much of the content below here is inaccurate: @mdlinville could you look it over and check?

Author: It's hard for me to verify how it looks like when there are skipped or cancelled executions, because I don't have any, and I'm not sure how to make it happen. Should I just remove this section?

Reviewer: 👍  that might be best

Skipped or cancelled executions show details about why it was skipped or who cancelled it.

## Filter and search automation history

This section shows various ways to filter and search for automation executions.

### Status filter dropdown
Click the **Status** dropdown to filter executions:
- **All statuses** (default): Shows every execution
- **Successful**: Shows only executions with green checkmarks
- **Failed**: Shows only executions with red X marks
- **In Progress**: Shows currently running executions
- **Cancelled**: Shows manually stopped executions

The filter updates the list in real-time, and the count badge shows the number of matching executions.

### Date range picker
Click the calendar icon to open the date range selector:
- **Quick ranges** (buttons at the top):
  - Last 24 hours
  - Last 7 days
  - Last 30 days
  - Last 90 days
- **Custom range**:
  - Select start and end dates from the calendar
  - Time selection available for precision

>   - Timezone selector (defaults to browser timezone)

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Search bar
The search bar supports both basic text search across all execution data and advanced search using operators. For example:

- `status:failed`: Find failed executions.
- `status:failed error:401`: Find failed executions with authentication errors.
- `trigger:"artifact alias"`: Find executions that match a trigger.
- `trigger:"run metric" metric:loss`: Find automations triggered by a given run metric's value.
- `webhook:https://api.example.com`: Find executions that called a specific webhook endpoint.
- `duration:>10s`: Find executions that took longer than 10 seconds.
- `error:timeout`: Find matching error messages.
- `artifact:model-v2`: Find executions that relate to s specific artifact.
- `artifact:"production-model" last 7 days`: Find recent executions that relate to a specific artifact.

> - `user:jane@company.com`: Find executions triggered by specific users.

Author: ```suggestion
If you have a large number of automations or executions:
- Use the search bar to filter or search for automations by name.
- Click a column name to sort by that column. Click a second time to reverse the sort order.
```

   - **403 Forbidden**: Check API permissions and scope.

   **Network connectivity**:
   - **Connection timeout**:
     - Verify the endpoint is accessible.
     - Check firewall rules if using private endpoints.
     - Consider increasing timeout in webhook configuration (Edit automation > Advanced settings > Request timeout).

   **Payload formatting**:
   - **400 Bad Request**:
     - Review the JSON syntax in the payload template.
     - Ensure all required fields are included.
     - Check data types match the endpoint's expectations.

1. After fixing the issue:
   - Click **Retry Now** to test the fix immediately.
   - Monitor the next scheduled execution.

### Verify automation triggers
1. Check the history to confirm an automation was triggered by a specific event.
1. Verify the timing and frequency of executions.
1. If necessary, adjust automations that are triggering too frequently or missing expected events or conditions.

### Audit automation activity
1. Export automation history for compliance or reporting.
1. Track which user and action triggered a given automation.
1. Monitor the overall health and reliability of your automation workflows.

> ## Retention policy

Author: @tonyyli-wandb Please confirm these details

Reviewer: Whoa where did this come from?

Author: Nooooo idea! I'll take it out! Do we have a retention policy at all?

> ## Retention policy
> - **Standard retention**: 90 days of execution history.
> - **Extended retention**: Up to 365 days of execution history for Enterprise plans. Contact [support](mailto:support@wandb.ai) or your account team to express interest.
> 
> During the retention period for an organization, the following details are kept:
> - **Failed execution details**: Full error logs and request/response data.
> - **Successful execution summaries**: Essential details. Payload details may be truncated after 30 days.

Author: ```suggestion
```

## Export automation data

> TODO: Verify. I can't find this UI anywhere.

Author: @tonyyli-wandb verify whether this is implemented and where I can find it in the UI?

Reviewer: (same question) where did this come from?

> ## Export automation data
> TODO: Verify. I can't find this UI anywhere.
> 
> This section shows how to export automation history for compliance or analysis.
> 
> 1. Click the **Export** button (download icon) at the top of the history list.
> 1. Select export format:
>    - **CSV**: Tabular format with key fields.
>    - **JSON**: Complete execution details including payloads.
>    - **PDF**: Formatted report for documentation.
> 1. Choose the date range to export.
> 1. Click **Generate Export**.
> 1. The export will be downloaded to your browser's default download location.
> 
> **CSV export includes**:
> - Execution ID (e.g., `exec_1234567890`)
> - Timestamp (UTC) (e.g., `2024-01-15T14:30:00Z`)
> - Status (e.g., `Success`, `Failed`, `Cancelled`)
> - Trigger type and details (e.g., `artifact_alias_added: model-v2`)
> - Duration (e.g., `2.3s`)

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Error message (if applicable) (e.g., `Connection timeout after 30s`)

> - User who triggered (for manual triggers) (e.g., `user@example.com`)

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ## Troubleshooting

Author: Please verify whether this content is useful

1. **Check automation status**:
   - Look for a **Disabled** badge on the automation list.
   - Click the automation's name to open its configuration.
   - Turn the automation back on using the toggle.

1. **Review filter criteria**:
   - Click the automation's name to open its configuration.
   - Check the **Filters** section for:
     - Artifact name patterns (regex).
     - Collection restrictions.
     - User filters.
   - Test your event against the filter using the **Test filters** tool.

1. **Inspect conditional logic**:
   - Advanced automations may have "Only if" conditions. For example, "Only trigger if artifact size > 100MB".
   - Check if your event met all conditions.

1. **Timing considerations**:
   - History may have a 1-2 minute delay to update after an automation runs.
   - Refresh the page after a few minutes, then check the "Last checked" timestamp at the top of the history.

### Missing execution details
Some execution details may be limited if:
- The automation was created before history tracking was turned on.
- Network issues prevented complete logging.
- The automation was deleted and recreated with the same name.

> ## Recommendations

Author: Please verify that these details are useful

---
menu:
  default:
    identifier: view-automation-history
    parent: automations
title: View an automation's history
weight: 3
---
{{% pageinfo color="info" %}}
{{< readfile file="/_includes/enterprise-cloud-only.md" >}}
{{% /pageinfo %}}

This page describes how to view and understand the execution history of your W&B [automations]({{< relref "/guides/core/automations/">}}). The automation history feature allows you to track when automations were triggered, what actions were taken, and whether they succeeded or failed.

## Overview

Automation history provides a comprehensive log of all automation executions, including:
- **Execution timestamp**: When the automation was triggered
- **Trigger event**: The specific event that caused the automation to run
- **Status**: Whether the automation succeeded, failed, or is still running
- **Action details**: Information about what action was performed (Slack notification sent, webhook called, etc.)
- **Error messages**: Detailed error information if the automation failed

### Execution statuses

> Automations can have one of the following statuses:

Author: Rewrite this to be singular to avoid "statuses".

| Status | Icon | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| **Success** | ✅ Green checkmark | The automation completed successfully and the action was performed |
| **Failed** | ❌ Red X | The automation encountered an error and could not complete |
| **In Progress** | 🔄 Spinning icon | The automation is currently executing |
| **Cancelled** | ⏹️ Gray square | The automation was manually stopped before completion |
| **Skipped** | ⏭️ Gray forward | The automation was triggered but skipped due to conditions not being met |

## Access automation history

You can view automation history from multiple locations in the W&B interface:

### From the Automations tab

{{< tabpane text=true >}}
{{% tab "Registry" %}}
1. Navigate to your registry by clicking on **Model Registry** in the left sidebar
2. Select your registry from the list

> 3. Click the **Automations** tab in the registry view

Author: ```suggestion
3. Click the **Automations history** tab in the registry. The list of automation executions for the registry displays in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution.
```

> 4. In the automations list, locate the automation you want to investigate

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 5. Click on the automation name (displayed as a blue link) to open its details page

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click an automation name to open its details page.
```

> 6. Select the **History** tab from the automation details page navigation

Author: ```suggestion
```

> 7. The history view will display all past executions in reverse chronological order (most recent first)

Author: ```suggestion
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Project" %}}
1. Navigate to your project from the W&B home page or by using the project selector
2. Click the **Automations** tab in the project navigation bar (located alongside Overview, Workspace, Runs, etc.)

> 3. In the automations list, find the automation you want to investigate

Author: ```suggestion
3. Click the **History** tab to view all automation executions in reverse chronological order, starting with the most recent execution.
```

   - Use the search bar to filter by automation name
   - Sort by last triggered date to find recently active automations

> 4. Click on the automation name (displayed as a blue link) to open its details page

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click an automation name to open its details page
```

5. Select the **History** tab from the tabs displayed (Configuration, History, etc.)

> 6. The history view will show all executions for this specific automation

Author: ```suggestion
```
